Reference audit: search parameters (#1027)
meilisearch/documentation: reference/features/search_parameters.md

# Search parameters

> Search parameters allow you greater control over the results returned by a MeiliSearch query.

Author: I'm torn on this. I think it's important we have this info in the docs, but I'm afraid that adding a warning here might sound as if we're trying to convince people not to use search parameters. Isn't there a better place? Somewhere under `Under the Hood`?

> Search parameters allow you greater control over the results returned by a MeiliSearch query.

Reviewer: Maybe we could add an FAQ about the differences between settings, configuration, and parameters in MeiliSearch?

> Search parameters allow you greater control over the results returned by a MeiliSearch query.

Reviewer: Either way, it's not necessary to resolve in this PR 🙂

> Search parameters allow you greater control over the results returned by a MeiliSearch query.

Reviewer: Issue created: #1034

> For instance, you can paginate results by using `limit` and `offset` parameters:

Author: I agree. Outright deleting stuff felt a bit too invasive for an audit, but if you're fine with it I'll just remove them. I really don't think they're helping anyone by listing two completely arbitrary things a user can do with search parameters.

> For instance, you can paginate results by using `limit` and `offset` parameters:

Reviewer: I support deleting them, let's just make a note to remove these two samples from the various `.code-samples` files. I would add it to the open PR, but I think that could be confusing for the integration team so better to do it in a separate PR once that one is merged.

<CodeSamples id="search_guide_1" />

Or you can request that a search only returns recently released movies by using the `filters` parameter:

<CodeSamples id="search_guide_2" />

::: warning

> All parameters must be **URL-encoded** when searching an index with a `GET` route.

Author: Thanks for that. My rationale was to try and give the most concrete bit of information upfront, but what you say makes sense 👍

## Query (q)

**Parameter**: `q`
**Expected value**: any string
**Default value**: `null`

Sets the search terms.

::: warning
MeiliSearch only considers the first ten words of any given search query. This is necessary in order to deliver a [fast search-as-you-type experience](/learn/what_is_meilisearch/philosophy.md#front-facing-search).
:::

### Example

You can search for films mentioning `shifu` by setting the `q` parameter:

<CodeSamples id="search_parameter_guide_query_1" />

This will give you a list of documents that contain that string in at least one of its attributes.

```json
{
  "hits": [
    {
      "id":"50393",
      "title":"Kung Fu Panda Holiday",
      "poster":"https://image.tmdb.org/t/p/w500/rV77WxY35LuYLOuQvBeD1nyWMuI.jpg",
      "overview":"The Winter Feast is Po's favorite holiday. Every year he and his father hang decorations, cook together, and serve noodle soup to the villagers.",
      "release_date":1290729600,
      "genres":["Animation","Family","TV Movie"]
    },
  ],
  "query":"shifu"
}
```

### Placeholder search

> When `q` isn't specified, MeiliSearch performs a **placeholder search**. A placeholder search returns all documents in an index, sorted by that index's [custom ranking rules](/reference/features/settings#custom-ranking-rule).

Author: Are there non-searchable documents in an index?

If the index has no custom ranking rules, the results are returned in the order of their internal database position.

::: tip
Placeholder searches are particularly effective when combined with [faceting](/reference/features/faceted_search) and [filtering](/reference/features/filtering.md).
:::

## Offset

**Parameter**: `offset`
**Expected value**: any positive integer
**Default value**: `0`

Sets the starting point in the search results, effectively skipping over a given number of documents.

::: tip
This parameter is often used together with `limit` in order to paginate results.
:::

### Example

If you want to skip the **first** result in a query, set `offset` to `1`:

<CodeSamples id="search_parameter_guide_offset_1" />

## Limit

**Parameter**: `limit`
**Expected value**: any positive integer
**Default value**: `20`

Sets the maximum number of items returned by a single query.

::: tip
This parameter is often used together with `offset` in order to paginate results.
:::

### Example

If you want your query to return only **two** documents, set `limit` to `2`:

<CodeSamples id="search_parameter_guide_limit_1" />

> ## Filters

Author: Should I create an issue so this doesn't slip between the cracks?

> ## Filters

Reviewer: Not necessary, it should already be noted in the body of the v0.21 PR. But I'll add some final checklist items to make sure that all instances of `filters`, `attributesForFaceting`, etc. have been removed from the docs.

**Parameter**: `filters`
**Expected value**: a string containing a query expression
**Default value**: `null`

> Filters query results using [MeiliSearch's query language](/reference/features/filtering.md#the-query-language).

Author: Had to do a double take on this one as I briefly read query as a verb and filters as a noun without the context.

> Filters query results using [MeiliSearch's query language](/reference/features/filtering.md#the-query-language).

Reviewer: Oh wow, I didn't realize it could be read that way but you're absolutely right. Maybe this phrasing would be better.

`Applies a filter to the search process. The supplied string must use MeiliSearch's [filter syntaxes](/reference/features/filtering.md#the-query-language)`

### Example

You can limit your search so it only returns results whose `title` field contains the word `Nightshift`:

> <CodeSamples id="search_parameter_guide_filter_1" />

Author: It isn't used anymore here, no. All search parameters must be URL-encoded when using the GET search route, so adding a specific example only for filter implied this requirement was restricted to the `filters` parameter.

      "overview": "Chris and his girlfriend Rose go upstate to visit her parents for the weekend. At first, Chris reads the family's overly accommodating behavior as nervous attempts to deal with their daughter's interracial relationship, but as the weekend progresses, a series of increasingly disturbing discoveries lead him to a truth that he never could have imagined.",
    }
  ],
  …
  "query": "thriller"
}
```

## Facets distribution

**Parameter**: `facetsDistribution`
**Expected value**: an array of `facetName`s or `["*"]`
**Default value**: `null`

> Adds the count of matching facet terms to the query's returned fields.

Author: First one definitely feels too technical. As in, complete, accurate, but also requires some effort to disentangle.

What do you think about:

```suggestion
Returns the number of documents matching the current search query for each given facet
```

> Adds the count of matching facet terms to the query's returned fields.

Reviewer: > What do you think about:

Yes, let's go with that. Don't forget to add a period at the end of the sentence 😉

This argument can take two values:

- An array of `facetName`s—this will only count the listed facets:  `facetsDistribution=[<facetNameA>, <facetNameB>, ...]`. If a `facetName` does not exist, it will be ignored

> - An asterisk—this will return a count for all facets: `["*"]`

Author: My reasoning here was that this bit would explain what `*` actually does. Most users will know, but I thought stating it explicitly could be useful for inexperienced programmers.

> - An asterisk—this will return a count for all facets: `["*"]`

Reviewer: You are totally right. Thanks for thinking of that 🙏🏻 
On a semi-related note, I just remembered that in order to be used in this parameter, `facetName`s must be added to `attributesForFaceting` (I believe—feel free to test).
I think we should add that information above, and also change this text to:

```
- An asterisk—this will return a count for all facets defined in `attributesForFaceting`
```

### Returned fields

> When `facetsDistribution` is set, the returned results contain **two additional fields**:

Author: ```suggestion
When `facetsDistribution` is set, search results contain **two additional fields**:
```

- `facetsDistribution`: The number of remaining candidates for each specified facet

- `exhaustiveFacetsCount`: A `true` or `false` value indicating whether the count reflects all instances of a facet. If `false`, the number is only an approximation.

> The non-exhaustive facet count happens when there are too many documents in too many different facet values. In this case, MeiliSearch stops the distribution count to prevent slowing down the request.

Author: Got it. I do have a bit of an issue with the `usually`, as it introduces a lot of uncertainty. What are the `unusual` reasons for a false `exhaustiveFacetsCount` is the immediate question that comes to my mind, and not finding the answer to that question would make me a bit uncomfortable if I were a dev looking through the docs.

> The non-exhaustive facet count happens when there are too many documents in too many different facet values. In this case, MeiliSearch stops the distribution count to prevent slowing down the request.

Reviewer: Got it, that makes sense. I've edited my suggestion to remove the word `usually`.

I feel like I remember being told that `exhaustiveFacetsCount` is always false in v0.21, but I wasn't able to track down a source for that information. Either way it's probably not worth documenting that.

## Attributes to retrieve

**Parameter**: `attributesToRetrieve`
**Expected value**: an array of `attribute`s or `["*"]`
**Default value**: `["*"]`

Configures which attributes will be displayed in the returned documents.

If no value is specified, `attributesToRetrieve` uses the [`displayedAttributes` list](/reference/features/settings.md#displayed-attributes), which by default contains all attributes found in the documents.

### Example

To get only the `overview` and `title` fields and ignore all other attributes, set `attributesToRetrieve` to `"overview", "title"`.

<CodeSamples id="search_parameter_guide_retrieve_1" />

> ## Attributes to crop

Author: Hmmmm…that's a good point, but I think I'm a bit against it. I personally prefer docs whose structure mirrors that of what they're documenting. Users still needs to send the query like

```json
{
  "attributesToCrop": ["something"],
  "cropLength": 100
}
```

I'm afraid nesting them would establish a parent/child instead of a sibling relation.

> ## Attributes to crop

Reviewer: That is totally valid, thanks for your perspective! 🤝

Having re-read `cropLength`, I'm not sure how it behaves when `attributesToCrop` is not set. My guess would be that it uses the default crop of 200 bytes on either side of matches, and applies it to all `attributesToRetrieve`. Anyway, I just mention this because it would mean that there's a conceivable case for using only `cropLength` without `attributesToCrop`, which also supports your decision.

> ## Attributes to crop

Author: Based on a quick search on a local instance, setting `cropLength` without configuring `attributesToCrop` has no effect. That said, it is still a valid query.

Perhaps we could add a sentence to `cropLength` stating that it is useless when used on its own?

**Parameter**: `attributesToCrop`

> **Expected value**: an array of `attribute`s or `["*"]`

Author: Reminder: ask @dichotommy about `<clientGlossary />` component.

**Default value**: `null`

Crops the selected attributes' values in the returned results to the length indicated by the [`cropLength`](/reference/features/search_parameters.md#crop-length) parameter.

The cropped version of each document will be available in each document's `_formatted` property.

Values can be supplied individually, one for each attribute you want to crop: `attributesToCrop=["attributeA", "attributeB"]`.

> Optionally, you can indicate a custom crop length for any of the listed attributes: `attributesToCrop=["attributeNameA:25", "attributeNameB:150"]`.

Author: Yes, I believe you are right. `cropLength` has a default value, so if a user adds `attributeNameA:25` they are effectively overriding `cropLength`'s value.

## Crop length

**Parameter**: `cropLength`
**Expected value**: a positive integer
**Default value**: `200`

Configures the number of characters to keep on each side of the matching word. Often used together with [`attributesToCrop`](/reference/features/search_parameters.md#attributes-to-crop).

## Attributes to highlight

**Parameter**: `attributesToHighlight`

> **Expected value**: an array of `attribute`s or `["*"]`

Author: Tell me more about `<clientGlossary>`

**Default value**: `null`

Highlights matching query words in the selected attributes. Every matching query word in the given attribute's value will be wrapped in an `<em>` tag.

Values can be supplied individually, in an array: `attributesToHighlight=["attributeA", "attributeB"]`.

Instead of single `attributes`, you can provide `["*"]` as a value: `attributesToHighlight=["*"]`. In this case, all the attributes present in `attributesToRetrieve` will be assigned to `attributesToHighlight`.

> The cropped version of each document will be available in its `_formatted` property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> If HTML highlighting is not desirable, `matches` can provide finer-grained control of the output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
::: tip
The highlighting performed by this parameter consists of wrapping matching query terms in `<em>` tags. Neither this tag nor this behavior can be modified.

If a different type of highlighting is desired, we recommend [the `matches` parameter](#matches), which provides much finer control over the output.
:::
```

### Example

> If you want to highlight the content of `overview`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you wanted to highlight query matches that appear within the `overview` attribute:
```

<CodeSamples id="search_parameter_guide_highlight_1" />

> You will get the following response with the **highlighted version in the `_formatted` object**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You would get the following response with the **highlighted version in the `_formatted` object**:
```

}
```

## Matches

**Parameter**: `matches`
**Expected value**: `true` or `false`
**Default value**: `false`

> Adds an object containing the location of each occurrence of queried terms across all fields. This is useful when you need more customization than offered by the default HTML highlighter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adds an object to the search response (`_matchesInfo`) containing the location of each occurrence of queried terms across all fields. This is useful when you need more control over highlighting than offered by our [built-in highlighting](#attributes-to-highlight).
```

> Matches can be found in the `\_matchesInfo` object present in each returned result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The location is indicated by the `start` position of the match and its length.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The beginning of a matching term within a field is indicated by `start`, and its length by `length`.
```

::: warning

> `start` and `length` return the number of bytes and not the number of characters. For example, `ü` represents two bytes but one character.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`start` and `length` are measured in bytes and not the number of characters. For example, `ü` represents two bytes but one character.
```

:::

### Example

If you set `matches` to `true` and search for `shifu`:

<CodeSamples id="search_parameter_guide_matches_1" />

> You will get the following response with the **information about the matches in the `\_matchesInfo` object**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You would get the following response with **information about the matches in the `_matchesInfo` object**:
```
